# 6.2.16. External Resource Interoperability

### 6.2.16. External Resource Interoperability[](#external-resource-interoperability "Permalink to this headline")

External resource interoperability allows CUDA to import certain resources that are explicitly exported by other APIs. These objects are typically exported by other APIs using handles native to the Operating System, like file descriptors on Linux or NT handles on Windows. They could also be exported using other unified interfaces such as the NVIDIA Software Communication Interface. There are two types of resources that can be imported: memory objects and synchronization objects.

Memory objects can be imported into CUDA using `cudaImportExternalMemory()`. An imported memory object can be accessed from within kernels using device pointers mapped onto the memory object via `cudaExternalMemoryGetMappedBuffer()`or CUDA mipmapped arrays mapped via `cudaExternalMemoryGetMappedMipmappedArray()`. Depending on the type of memory object, it may be possible for more than one mapping to be setup on a single memory object. The mappings must match the mappings setup in the exporting API. Any mismatched mappings result in undefined behavior. Imported memory objects must be freed using `cudaDestroyExternalMemory()`. Freeing a memory object does not free any mappings to that object. Therefore, any device pointers mapped onto that object must be explicitly freed using `cudaFree()` and any CUDA mipmapped arrays mapped onto that object must be explicitly freed using `cudaFreeMipmappedArray()`. It is illegal to access mappings to an object after it has been destroyed.

Synchronization objects can be imported into CUDA using `cudaImportExternalSemaphore()`. An imported synchronization object can then be signaled using `cudaSignalExternalSemaphoresAsync()` and waited on using `cudaWaitExternalSemaphoresAsync()`. It is illegal to issue a wait before the corresponding signal has been issued. Also, depending on the type of the imported synchronization object, there may be additional constraints imposed on how they can be signaled and waited on, as described in subsequent sections. Imported semaphore objects must be freed using `cudaDestroyExternalSemaphore()`. All outstanding signals and waits must have completed before the semaphore object is destroyed.