# 15.1. Introduction

## 15.1. Introduction[](#stream-ordered-memory-allocator-intro "Permalink to this headline")

Managing memory allocations using `cudaMalloc` and `cudaFree` causes GPU to synchronize across all executing CUDA streams. The Stream Order Memory Allocator enables applications to order memory allocation and deallocation with other work launched into a CUDA stream such as kernel launches and asynchronous copies. This improves application memory use by taking advantage of stream-ordering semantics to reuse memory allocations. The allocator also allows applications to control the allocator’s memory caching behavior. When set up with an appropriate release threshold, the caching behavior allows the allocator to avoid expensive calls into the OS when the application indicates it is willing to accept a bigger memory footprint. The allocator also supports the easy and secure sharing of allocations between processes.

For many applications, the Stream Ordered Memory Allocator reduces the need for custom memory management abstractions, and makes it easier to create high-performance custom memory management for applications that need it. For applications and libraries that already have custom memory allocators, adopting the Stream Ordered Memory Allocator enables multiple libraries to share a common pool of memory managed by the driver, thus reducing excess memory consumption. Additionally, the driver can perform optimizations based on its awareness of the allocator and other stream management APIs. Finally, Nsight Compute and the Next-Gen CUDA debugger is aware of the allocator as part of their CUDA 11.3 toolkit support.