# CUresult cuLogsDumpToMemory (CUlogIterator *iterator, char *buffer, size_t *size, unsigned int flags)

Dump accumulated driver logs into a buffer.

###### Parameters

**iterator**

  - Optional auto-advancing iterator specifying the starting log to read. NULL value dumps all logs.
**buffer**

  - Pointer to dump logs
**size**

  - See description
**flags**

  - Reserved for future use, must be 0

###### Returns

CUDA_SUCCESS, CUDA_ERROR_INVALID_VALUE

###### Description

Logs generated by the driver are stored in an internal buffer and can be copied out using this API. This
API dumps driver logs from iterator into buffer up to the size specified in *size. The driver
will always null terminate the buffer but there will not be a null character between log entries, only
a newline \n. The driver will then return the actual number of bytes written in *size, excluding the
null terminator. If there are no messages to dump, *size will be set to 0 and the function will return
CUDA_SUCCESS. If the provided buffer is not large enough to hold any messages, *size will be
set to 0 and the function will return CUDA_ERROR_INVALID_VALUE.


Note:

**‣** iterator is auto-advancing. Dumping logs will update the value of iterator to receive the
next generated log.

**‣** The driver reserves limited memory for storing logs. The maximum size of the buffer is 25600
bytes. The oldest logs may be overwritten and become unrecoverable. An indication will appear in
the destination outupt if the logs have been truncated. Call dump after each failed API to mitigate
this risk.

**‣** If the provided value in *size is not large enough to hold all buffered messages, a message will
be added at the head of the buffer indicating this. The driver then computes the number of messages
it is able to store in buffer and writes it out. The final message in buffer will always be the
most recent log message as of when the API is called.


CUDA Driver API TRM-06703-001 _vRelease Version  |  592


Modules