# 6.2. CUDA Runtime

## 6.2. CUDA Runtime[](#cuda-runtime "Permalink to this headline")

The runtime is implemented in the `cudart` library, which is linked to the application, either statically via `cudart.lib` or `libcudart.a`, or dynamically via `cudart.dll` or `libcudart.so`. Applications that require `cudart.dll` and/or `cudart.so` for dynamic linking typically include them as part of the application installation package. It is only safe to pass the address of CUDA runtime symbols between components that link to the same instance of the CUDA runtime.

All its entry points are prefixed with `cuda`.

As mentioned in [Heterogeneous Programming](#heterogeneous-programming), the CUDA programming model assumes a system composed of a host and a device, each with their own separate memory. [Device Memory](#device-memory) gives an overview of the runtime functions used to manage device memory.

[Shared Memory](#shared-memory) illustrates the use of shared memory, introduced in [Thread Hierarchy](#thread-hierarchy), to maximize performance.

[Page-Locked Host Memory](#page-locked-host-memory) introduces page-locked host memory that is required to overlap kernel execution with data transfers between host and device memory.

[Asynchronous Concurrent Execution](#asynchronous-concurrent-execution) describes the concepts and API used to enable asynchronous concurrent execution at various levels in the system.

[Multi-Device System](#multi-device-system) shows how the programming model extends to a system with multiple devices attached to the same host.

[Error Checking](#error-checking) describes how to properly check the errors generated by the runtime.

[Call Stack](#call-stack) mentions the runtime functions used to manage the CUDA C++ call stack.

[Texture and Surface Memory](#texture-and-surface-memory) presents the texture and surface memory spaces that provide another way to access device memory; they also expose a subset of the GPU texturing hardware.

[Graphics Interoperability](#graphics-interoperability) introduces the various functions the runtime provides to interoperate with the two main graphics APIs, OpenGL and Direct3D.